Okay.
So in the previous lesson, we took care of a lot of housekeeping in our job listings component.
We imported our composable as we mark them out and we talked about how we could use them in the body
of a test.
Now that we have a better sense of how to do that, we can move a little bit quicker through the remaining
tests.
But one thing that's going to stay pretty common is the use of the three composable and marking them
out.
So what I'm going to do is copy the three lines I have right here, lines 25 through 27.
And I'm basically going to copy and paste these lines to every follow up test and then adjust them accordingly
for whatever that test needs.
So let's scroll down to our next test right here, and I'm immediately going to paste these lines below.
So this test cares about that.
The component creates a job listing for a maximum of ten jobs.
So as we can see from our former code here, back when we were using a mock store, we cared about having
a number of filter jobs that was large enough to force more than a page of results.
So, for example, here we had 15 jobs, we had an array of 15 values, and then we were validating
that on page one, we were displaying exactly ten job listings.
So the intent of this test can remain exactly the same.
We can basically say, Hey, say you have 15 filter jobs, only show ten.
So all we need to do is adjust our new code to be able to have that scenario.
So we're no longer going to get our filter jobs from this store set up.
We're going to get our filter jobs as the return value of use filter jobs.
So all we need to modify is this value array right here to have 15 items in it.
And if our new implementation does the exact same thing, then our tests should be able to pass once
again.
So right here, instead of having an empty array, I'm going to replicate the code that I have right
here.
So I'm going to say array.
I'm going to create an array of 15 items and then I'm going to call the fill method and provide 15 empty
objects.
Because remember, we don't need real job objects if we simply have an array of 15.
That should be enough to get it to work right.
For use current page.
If we want 15, let's say we're going to switch this up a little bit.
Let's say we're going to be on page one because that's going to be the page where we're going to have
ten jobs listed, right?
Not page two, because that's going to be the last five.
So let's say we're on page one.
If that's the case for my use previous and next pages mock return value.
I'll make the previous page undefined because we're not going to have a previous page before page one.
And for my next page, I'm going to have page two.
All right.
So, again, just painting a story for a follow up reader that fits a real world scenario.
We have 15 jobs.
We're showing ten on the first page and we have a second page.
So here's the part that's for me, the most fun part.
It's being able to basically delete a lot of our former code and then compare the before and after.
So do we care about query params any more?
We do not.
We don't care about our create out function that no longer exists.
We don't care about our number of jobs and our store because we replace that functionality in our mock
return value for our shallow amount and going to replace or rather remove these two arguments because
they no longer exist.
I'm still going to keep the remainder of the code the same.
I'm going to focus on this test with fit.
Save that.
Let it run.
And we could see it's going to pass.
Beautiful.
And we can see I think it can be argued that it is a little bit cleaner.
All right.
Let's move on to our next test.
In fact, we're going to move on to our next two tests, and I'm going to offer us a wonderful piece
of news.
So take a look at these two tests.
This is when query params, exclude page number and when query applet params include page number.
We're basically testing that.
We're displaying some page number on the page either whatever the query params tell us or one as a default.
Well, the good news is this code was previously in our job listings component and now it exists in
our totally separate use current page.
A composable.
Here's where we have that logic.
And here is where we have the fallback of page one.
The good news is we already have tests for the use current page composable that tests both of these
paths of execution.
Both of these separate branches of logic.
So there's no more need to double test this in job listings, because from job listings perspective,
all it cares about is it's going to talk to use current page.
It's going to get a value from it, and it's going to render it right here on the page.
Here it is, getting current page in the returned object and then somewhere above.
It's also rendering current page right here.
But it no longer cares about how use current page is getting that number or the complexity.
That logic is tested elsewhere in a separate file for a separate function.
So this functionality which we were previously testing, the component is now just one piece of functionality.
So we no longer need to test these two tests.
We're testing two variations, and now those two variations are isolated to our use current page composable.
So what we can do is remove one of these tests and just adjust the other one.
So for example, when I'm going to do here is simply remove my second test here and I no longer care
about the describe situation, which is when create params exclude page number because it doesn't matter.
This logic is now living in my composable.
All I care about is displaying whatever page number the composable gives me.
So what I'm going to do here is delete that.
Describe delete my closing brackets here as well.
Let's save that.
And instead of saying display as page number one, I'm simply going to save displays page number.
It displays some page number, which is obviously going to get from the composable.
So I'm going to once again copy what we have above.
Let's say I copy this set of three lines from before.
Paste them right here.
All right.
Do we care about our filter jobs for this test?
Not really.
We just need to make sure we have an array.
And just to keep things a little bit interesting.
Let's say we are testing that.
We are on page five.
So if our current page is going to be page five, then our previous page is going to be four and our
next page is going to be six.
And ultimately, what we hope for is that the wrappers text will have page five.
So to summarize, because I did move a little bit quickly, our use current page composable function
which is being mocked out we're seeing on line 48 is going to return a value of five.
How it does that logic we don't care about in this component, but if it gives me a value of five,
then I want to make sure I see page five somewhere in my wrappers text that confirms the ultimate thing
that this test was originally testing for, which is just the display of the page number.
All right.
So with that, we can once again clean up a lot of this logic.
We don't need query params.
We don't care about the route that is now being handled by our use current page composable.
We don't care about a mock store.
We can invoke create config with just two or without those two arguments and simply test the we're getting
page five right.
And a reader reading this can say, okay, where is five coming from?
They can look at our mock return values and hopefully make the association of oh five is coming from
here.
So it must be talking to the use current page composable.
If you want to add another assertion, you could also verify that use current page has been called,
but this to me is enough to guarantee the interaction and it focuses mostly on how the user experiences
the component.
So I want to keep it like this.
So let me focus on this test and we might discover that we may have an issue here.
I'm going to focus on this test and we're going to discover that we are going to have a failure.
So let me show you what that failure is.
You can see that we're testing for the substring, page five.
But here what we're getting is page followed by value five.
So unfortunately, what's happening here is this is one scenario where our mock JavaScript object,
our basic object with a value of five, is not good enough to play the role of a reactive object from
Vue.
Because whenever Vue takes a reactive object with a value property, it knows how to render it to the
DOM.
It does not know the same thing with our basic object with just a value property, right?
So this is now no longer in our setup method.
This is this interaction right here where it's taking a reactive object and rendering it right here.
We are not giving it a reactive object.
We are giving it a plain JavaScript object that we hoped was going to be good enough to play that role.
But obviously this is no longer going to be good enough.
So how do we fix this problem?
Well, one really simple way we can do it is to simply give it a real reactive object.
So what I can do is scroll all the way to the top of my file and right here I can import the ref function
from view.
And right as I scroll down right here, instead of mock returning a object with a value property, I'm
going to give it an actual object of the value property, which is going to be a reactive object from
view exactly as the template knows how to work with.
And I'm just going to give it a value of five.
So this is very similar to what we were just having, except we're giving a real view reactive object,
which should be good enough when we're testing DOM interaction because we are going to actually talk
about page five being rendered here, this logic right here.
And so this is just unfortunately a scenario where we were not able to perfectly mock out the original
solution going to save.
This is just to show you that it does.
Work.
And another cool thing I do want to show you is if we actually simply return a value of five right here,
this test will also work.
And the reason is because if we return current page right here, we're going to get five.
We're going to return five right here.
And we're going to render it not as a reactive value, but still value rendered as a single one time
render in the DOM, which should be good enough to test for our section of page five.
The only reason I'm slightly leaning on providing a ref right here is because there is this displayed
jobs computer function right here that is relying on current page value to run.
And in order for it to have a value property, it can't just be the number five.
It has to be a reactive object, or at least something with a value property.
So to just avoid any confusion, I am going to stick with a view reactive object here, but five should
in theory work.
So with that this test is once again passing just fine.
So let me just save it one more time to run and we should get a passing test suite.
All right.
So once again, moving right along.
And I think in the very next lesson, we're going to be able to finish up all of our remaining failing
tests.